Permissioning  Contract migration - add detail (#803)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/Tutorials/Permissioning/Upgrade-Permissioning-Contract.md

### 3. Update environment variables

If using a `.env` file to configure environment variables, then
the file must be in the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory.

!!! tip

    You can use environment variables to retain existing contracts if required. For example:

    * `RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true` to retain the current admin list
    * `RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=true` to retain the current Node rules contract
    * `RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=true` to retain the current Account rules contract

1. Legacy: If they exist, rename the following environment variables:
    * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_ACCOUNT` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_ACCOUNT`
    * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_KEY` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_KEY`
    * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_ENDPOINT` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_ENDPOINT`

> 2. If updating from v1 to v2, you need to re-deploy the `NodeIngress` contract. In order to do this, first delete the `NODE_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` environment variable.

Reviewer: Suggestion: "If updating from v1 to v2, delete the `NODE_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` environment variable and re-deploy the `NodeIngress` contract."

Author: I had this split into two separate instructions, as the first part is under the heading "update environment variables" and the second part is under "deploy the contracts"

    !!! important

        This step is only required if upgrading from v1 of the node permissioning contract
        to v2 (because the interface changed, a new `NodeIngress` contract must be deployed).

### 4. Optional: Export current allowlists

!!! note

    These steps enable you to export the current allowlists to assist in updating.
    You can set these lists via the Dapp if you prefer.

1. Export the current allowlists by setting the following environment variables:

    ```bash
    RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true
    RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=true
    RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=true
    ```

1. Log the current allowlists to console:

    ```bash
    truffle migrate --reset
    ```

    The migration scripts will log the existing allowlists to the console, but no contracts will be deployed.

> 1. Set initial values for updated deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set initial values for updated deployment using the values logged in the previous step:
```

>     Using the values logged in the previous step, set the following environment variables as required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    ```bash
    INITIAL_ADMIN_ACCOUNTS=<list-of-admins>
    INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_ACCOUNTS=<list-of-accounts>
    INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_NODES=<list-of-enode-urls>
    ```

> 1. Update environment variables for contracts that are to be deployed. For example:
> 
>     ```bash
>     RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true
>     RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=false
>     RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=false
>     ```  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update environment variables for contracts that are to be deployed.

    !!! example
    
        ```bash
        RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true
        RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=false
        RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=false
        ```  
```

### 5. Deploy the contracts

1. In the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory, deploy the contracts:

    ```bash
    truffle migrate --reset
    ```

    !!! important

        - If updating from v1 to v2, the new `NodeIngress` contract address must be specified when restarting the Besu nodes. Copy this address from the migration output. For example:
        ```bash
        > Deployed NodeIngress contract to address = 0x12B1f953395080A13AeED0dC4d0bb14e787A91cF
        ```
        - If upgrading from v2 (using separate storage contracts) copy the `Storage` contract addresses displayed in the output. For example:
        ```
        > Deployed NodeStorage contract to address = 0x4F3e35A3Be3C1b77Ade39969D175C743ad3484Ee
        ...
        > Deployed AccountStorage contract to address = 0x2362187023D738034B516438Af187356b31E8Fb8
        ```

> 1. Set the storage contract address environment variables to ensure that the storage contracts are not re-deployed. For example:
> 
>     ```bash
>     NODE_STORAGE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0xE0bF6021e023a197DBb3fABE64efA880E13D3f4b
>     ACCOUNT_STORAGE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x7153CCD1a20Bbb2f6dc89c1024de368326EC6b4F
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the storage contract address environment variables to ensure that the storage contracts are not re-deployed.

    !!! example
    
        ```bash
        NODE_STORAGE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0xE0bF6021e023a197DBb3fABE64efA880E13D3f4b
        ACCOUNT_STORAGE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x7153CCD1a20Bbb2f6dc89c1024de368326EC6b4F
        ```
```

1. Deploy the updated contracts:

    ```bash
    truffle migrate --reset
    ```

> ### 6. Start the Permissioning Management Dapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Start the permissioning management dapp
```

In the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory, start the Web server:

```bash
yarn start
```

> The Dapp displays at [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dapp displays at [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).
```

### 7. Restart Besu nodes

Restart the Besu nodes with the updated [`NodeIngress`](#4-deploy-the-contract)
contract address and [permissioning contract interface](../../HowTo/Limit-Access/Specify-Perm-Version.md)
version.

> ```cmd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! example

    ```cmd
```

> besu --data-path=data --genesis-file=../cliqueGenesis.json --permissions-accounts-contract-enabled --permissions-accounts-contract-address "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008888" --permissions-nodes-contract-enabled  --permissions-nodes-contract-address "0x4E72770760c011647D4873f60A3CF6cDeA896CD8" --permissions-nodes-contract-version=2 --rpc-http-enabled --rpc-http-cors-origins="*" --rpc-http-api=ADMIN,ETH,NET,PERM,CLIQUE --host-allowlist="*"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    besu --data-path=data --genesis-file=../cliqueGenesis.json --permissions-accounts-contract-enabled --permissions-accounts-contract-address "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008888" --permissions-nodes-contract-enabled  --permissions-nodes-contract-address "0x4E72770760c011647D4873f60A3CF6cDeA896CD8" --permissions-nodes-contract-version=2 --rpc-http-enabled --rpc-http-cors-origins="*" --rpc-http-api=ADMIN,ETH,NET,PERM,CLIQUE --host-allowlist="*"
    ```
```

In the command, note the following options:

> 

Reviewer: It seems this and the following bullets points can be deleted.

Author: It might be repetition but I would be inclined to keep these points esp the "permissions-nodes-contract-version"

Author: changed my mind! I added "version 2" on the line before the command instead.

### 3. Update environment variables

If using a `.env` file to configure environment variables, then
the file must be in the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory.

!!! tip

    You can use environment variables to retain existing contracts if required. For example:

    * `RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true` to retain the current admin list
    * `RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=true` to retain the current Node rules contract
    * `RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=true` to retain the current Account rules contract

1. Legacy: If they exist, rename the following environment variables:
    * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_ACCOUNT` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_ACCOUNT`
    * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_KEY` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_KEY`

>     * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_ENDPOINT` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_ENDPOINT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `PANTHEON_NODE_PERM_ENDPOINT` to `BESU_NODE_PERM_ENDPOINT`
```

> 2. If updating from v1 to v2, the Node Ingress contract must be re-deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If updating from v1 to v2, re-deploy the `NodeIngress` contract and delete the `NODE_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` environment variable.
```

    !!! important

        This step is only required if upgrading from v1 of the node permissioning contract

>         to v2 (because the interface changed, a new NodeIngress contract must be deployed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        to v2 (because the interface changed, a new `NodeIngress` contract must be deployed).
```

>     If updating from v1 to v2, delete the following environment variable:
>     * `NODE_INGRESS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 4. Optional: Export current allowlists

!!! note

    These steps enable you to export the current allowlists to assist in updating.
    You can set these lists via the dapp if you prefer.

1. Export the current allowlists by setting the following environment variables:

    ```bash
    RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true
    RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=true
    RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=true
    ```

1. Log the current rules to console:

    ```bash
    truffle migrate
    ```

    The migration scripts will log the existing rules to the console, but no contracts will be deployed.

1. Set initial values for updated deployment:

    Using the values logged in the previous step, set the following environment variables as required:

    ```bash
    INITIAL_ADMIN_ACCOUNTS=<list-of-admins>
    INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_ACCOUNTS=<list-of-accounts>
    INITIAL_ALLOWLISTED_NODES=<list-of-enode-urls>
    ```

1. Update environment variables for contracts that are to be deployed. For example:

    ```bash
    RETAIN_ADMIN_CONTRACT=true
    RETAIN_NODE_RULES_CONTRACT=false
    RETAIN_ACCOUNT_RULES_CONTRACT=false
    ```  

### 5. Deploy the contracts

> In the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory, deploy the contracts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory, deploy the contracts:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```bash
```

> truffle migrate
> ```
> 
> !!! important

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    truffle migrate
    ```

    !!! important
```

>     If updating from v1 to v2, copy the `NodeIngress` contract address which is displayed in the output. This must be specified when restarting the Besu nodes.

Reviewer 2: > which is displayed in the output
is a bit underspecific. Where would I see that?

Author: added examples

>     If updating from v1 to v2, copy the `NodeIngress` contract address which is displayed in the output. This must be specified when restarting the Besu nodes.
> 
> !!! note
> 
>     If upgrading from v2.0.1 or later (using separate storage contracts) copy the `Storage` contract addresses displayed in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - If updating from v1 to v2, copy the `NodeIngress` contract address which is displayed in the output. This must be specified when restarting the Besu nodes.
        - If upgrading from v2.0.1 or later (using separate storage contracts) copy the `Storage` contract addresses displayed in the output.
```

1. Set the storage contract address environment variables to ensure that the storage contracts are not re-deployed. For example:

    ```bash
    ACCOUNT_STORAGE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x7153CCD1a20Bbb2f6dc89c1024de368326EC6b4F
    NODE_STORAGE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0xE0bF6021e023a197DBb3fABE64efA880E13D3f4b
    ```

1. Deploy the updated contracts:

    ```bash
    truffle migrate
    ```

    !!! important

        This will set the storage owner to the newly deployed contract version.

### 6. Start the Permissioning Management Dapp

> In the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory, start the webserver serving the Dapp:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `permissioning-smart-contracts` directory, start the Web server serving the dapp:
```

```bash
yarn start
```

> The Dapp displays at [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dapp displays at [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).
```
